Welcome to module four.
So far in this course we've really been
focused on you as the data analyst and
the tools of the trade.
We've learned how to think through
analytical problems and outlined a value
chain of events that describe how
the analytic process is executed.
We've examined the wide variety of tools
available in the data environment and
how those environments are built.
We've even spent a fair amount of time
learning some technical SQL skills
that help us directly
access the data we need.
Now it's time to turn our attention
outwards and look at what else is around.
If you watched the introduction
to the course,
you might recall that we used a surfing
analogy to describe our approach to
data analytics.
Even the best surfers in the world don't
just show up on an unfamiliar beach and
start paddling into the surf.
They take the time to
understand the environment,
they take the time to understand what's
out there and how the break works.
They learn what's below the surface,
they observe for
a while to see where to paddle out and
where to catch the wave.
They also understand
who else is out there.
They recognize there are locals who know
the environment better than they do.
They understand the customs and the do's
and don'ts of that particular location.
Just like the surfer,
you'll need to understand your environment
if you want to perform at your best.
In this module we'll focus on
real analytical organizations and
on the people, structures and
practices that support them.
We'll start by examining various roles
that exists in your organization.
As a data analyst, yours is one.
But there are many other people whose jobs
are critical to enabling your success.
We'll then take a look at how analytic
organizations are structured.
We'll review the pros and
cons of different approaches and
understand what factors drive companies
to organize in different ways.
Finally, we look at a few related
practices that helped to provide rules and
standards that guide how data is used.
Namely data governance,
data privacy and data quality.
By the end of the module you should be
able to identify the people who worked in
your data environment and
understand what they do.
You should also be able to recognize
what type of structure you have and
perhaps whether it's the best one for
your organization.
Additionally, you should be able
to describe the basic tenants of
data governance, privacy and quality and
generally how to apply
them in your organization.
Surf's up so let's get at it.